docs(files) add doc for files API (#2367)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/files-api.md

---
title: Using the Portal Files API
---

## Portal Files API Overview

> The Portal Files API can be used as an alternative to the Portal CLI to manage
> dev portal content. Portal content must maintain a specific structure to render

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Portal Files API is a small-scale alternative to the Portal CLI for managing Dev 
Portal content. Portal content must maintain a specific structure to render
```
Suggestion to make the scale distinction right away.

Reviewer 2: This suggested doesn't seem to add value; rather, it seems to detract.  Prefer @Jlawlzz 's original description unless he states otherwise. Stet.

Author: Agree with @tlblessing, small-scale adds a correlation that doesn't necessarily exist.

correctly, so it is generally recommended to use the

> [CLI](/enterprise/2.1.x/developer-portal/helpers/cli/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[CLI](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/helpers/cli/)
```

because it enforces that structure. The Portal Files API is useful for smaller
tasks such as managing specification, content, or theme files outside the context of
[kong-portal-templates](https://github.com/kong/kong-portal-templates).

Parameter                       | Type   | Description                | Required | Examples
-------------------------------:|:------:|:--------------------------:|:--------:|---------------

> `path`                          | `string` | The path of the file.      | `yes`    | `content/example.txt`, `specs/petstore.json`, `themes/base/layouts/index.html`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`path`                          | `string` | The path to the file.      | `yes`    | `content/example.txt`, `specs/petstore.json`, `themes/base/layouts/index.html`
```

Reviewer: Is this path relative to something specific, eg Kong?

`contents`                      | `string` | The contents of the file.  | `yes`    | `contents=@<file-location>.html`, `contents=@<spec-location>.json`, `contents=@<partial-location>.html`

**Note:** The `@` symbol in a command automatically reads the file on disk and places
its contents into the contents argument.

> ### Post a content file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### POST a Content File
```

For more details about content files, see the

> [Content File Docs](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/structure-and-file-types#content-files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Content File documentation](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/structure-and-file-types#content-files).
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Using cURL %}

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files \
  -F "path=content/homepage.html" \
  -F "contents=@<file-location>.json"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Using HTTPie %}

```bash

> http post :8001/default/files  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http post :8001/default/files  \
```

  path=content/homepage.html   \
  contents=@<file-location>.html
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

> ### Post a spec file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### POST a Spec File
```

For more details about specification files, see the

> [Spec File Docs](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/structure-and-file-types#spec-files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Spec File documentation](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/structure-and-file-types#spec-files).
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Using cURL %}

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files \
  -F "path=specs/homepage.json" \
  -F "contents=@<spec-location>.json"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Using HTTPie %}

```bash

> http post :8001/default/files  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http post :8001/default/files  \
```

  path=specs/homepage.json   \
  contents=@<spec-location>.json
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

> ### Post a theme file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### POST a Theme File
```

For more details about theme files, see the

> [Theme File Docs](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/structure-and-file-types#theme-files).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Theme File documentation](/enterprise/{{page.kong_version}}/developer-portal/structure-and-file-types#theme-files).
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Using cURL %}

```bash
$ curl -X POST http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files \
  -F "path=themes/base/partials/header.html" \
  -F "contents=@<partial-location>.html"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Using HTTPie %}

```bash

> http post :8001/default/files  \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http post :8001/default/files  \
```

  path=themes/base/partials/header.html \
  contents=@<partial-location>.html

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Extra blank line.

```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

> ### Get a file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### GET a File
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Using cURL %}

```bash
$ curl -X GET http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files/content/index.txt
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Using HTTPie %}

```bash

> http :8001/default/files/content/index.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http :8001/default/files/content/index.txt
```

```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

> ### Patch a file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### PATCH a File
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Using cURL %}

```bash

> $ curl -X PATCH http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files \

Author: `http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files/content/index.txt`

  -F "contents=@<updated-content-file-location>.txt"
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Using HTTPie %}

```bash

> http patch :8001/default/files/content/index.txt \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http patch :8001/default/files/content/index.txt \
```

  contents=@<updated-content-file-location>.txt
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% endnavtabs %}

> ### Delete a file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### DELETE a File
```

{% navtabs %}
{% navtab Using cURL %}

```bash
$ curl -X DELETE http://<admin-hostname>:8001/default/files/content/index.txt
```

{% endnavtab %}
{% navtab Using HTTPie %}

```bash

> http delete :8001/default/files/content/index.txt

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ http delete :8001/default/files/content/index.txt
```
